The project that I am working on is called "Wall Ball," a twist on a classic ping pong-style game where both players can control a paddle to prevent a ball from bouncing out of the screen. This is my first time using Java so the project is a learning experience and an opportunity to experiment with creating simple Java games. It would be best to use Java's Swing and AWT Libraries to create a user interface and handle interactions, such as controlling the paddles and ball movement. I've never built a game in Java so the challenge will be to be able to use my prior knowledge from Python as well as do independent research to understand game loops and collision detection.
The main goal for my project is to learn and explore the fundamentals of Java while also creating a simple and entertaining game. My goal is to be able to add a twist to the game like a power ups. These features will randomly appear throughout gameplay and provide advantages (Ex. increased paddle speed) or disadvantages (Ex. paddle shrinking or faster ball speed). I want to experiment with these features to see how they can impact the flow of the game while also making it fun and entertaining for the player. 
Players will interact with the game using their keyboard to move the paddle. I will use Java Swing for the graphical interface and AWT for key presses and drawing components. Since I am new to Java, this project is an experiment to allow me to dip my toes into the water of basic development concepts such as timers, and collision detection. I aim to achieve a smooth functioning game where the player can enjoy a fun game and randomized power-ups. 
